The pattern common to the subconscious and immune systems

Most of us likely recognize the distinct experience of an idea fitting together in that 'aha' moment, bought about while doing mundane things like taking a shower, washing dishes or just while being out and about. This 'aha' moment as a shared experience valuts us into the company of such legends as Newton, Poincare´ and Einstein to name very few. In his book The Psychology of Invention in the Mathematical Field, Jacques Hadamard interviews luminaries such as the aforementioned people to ask them how they came up with their most astonishing ideas. Almost without exception, they all allude to the power of unconscious or subconscious as the key aid to their most complex ideas. 

Poincare's story is especially relatable. He had been working on an incredibly hard problem for a long time, and made no progress except maybe discovering numerous dead-ends. Then he went on a trip with colleagues and friends, and in the middle of the trip while alighting from the carriage they were in in a sudden flash of insight the problem he was working on came to him fully resolved. He did not have the time to verify the result immediately, but "felt" it solved. Later in the night he got to his room and used a pen and paper to verify his insight, and sure enough it was solved. Newton alludes to a similar thing with the Apple falling on the ground in front of him, and so does Einstein when referring to "the happiest thought he ever had" that <7-years> later led to the publication of "The Special Theory of Relativity," a magnum opus of an achievement.

There are pre-conditions that need to be met for this type of insight to arise. Both Poincare and Einstein explain this, as requiring a deep familiarity with the subject matter pertaining to the problem. This is a function of how much time the conscious brain has spent studying it, working on it, understanding it and attempting to solve it. This is hard, and requires extensive focus and passion for the problem at hand. It should have seeped so deep into your conscious, that you find yourself thinking of it while taking a shower, while walking or doing mundane things. The brain finds itself drifting to it. It is in that state, that the conditions are met for an insight. 

THe more time you spend, the more the conscious has systematized the relevant subject matter and these systems transfer to the unconscious part of your brain. As more and more structure is extracted, more of the unconscious is recruited. Now most of this should not be surprising, but I continued to wonder why the subsconscious was the seat of hte most complex patter connections. The role of the conscious is understandable in that it extracts a structure inherent in the problem, and as the confidence in the structure grows, it is handed off to the unconscious to do the computationally intensive part of finding a general pattern. 

To analyze this let's use an artificial intelligence as a first-order, enormously simplified brain. A few differences between this network and an actual brain network, is that the brain signals through neurotransmitters, and activating the first neuron does not mean every neuron is recruited, as is the case with our model artifical neural networks (ANNs).

loss vs dopamine (somehow dopamine is able to capture loss)
ideas are combinations of concepts in a specific order (we do not know how order is encapsulated in the brain) 
insights are combinations of ideas. 
there are so many levels between a signal receiving neuron and an insight that the number of possible combinations is infinite by our comprehension
So the subsconscious is running simulations of these various combinations and seeing which lead to a noticeable dopamine release 
This process of running permuations and combinations is homologous to the immune system where antibodies secreting B-cells are created in the bone marrow
Essentially a process of permuted genetic mutations carried out to simulate the various organisms that may pose a threat without actually encountering the organisms (or sometimes encountering them) 
Goes through a selection process involving filtering out the ones that may pose threat to the bodies own cells

